Building controller modules (#1273) (#287)
ansible/aap-docs: downstream/modules/platform/proc-controller-importing-subscriptions.adoc

[id="controller-importing-subscriptions"]

= Importing a subscription

After you have obtained an authorized {PlatformNameShort} subscription, you must first import it into the {ControllerName} system before you can begin using it.

.Prerequisites

* You have obtained a subscriptions manifest. For more information, see link:http://docs.ansible.com/automation-controller/4.4/html/userguide/import_license.html#obtain-sub-manifest[Obtaining a subscriptions manifest] in the Automation Controller User Guide.

.Procedure

. Launch controller for the first time. 
The *Subscription Management* screen is displayed.
+
image::controller-gs-subscription-management.png[Subscription Management]
+
. Retrieve and and import your subscription by completing either of the following steps:

> .. If you have link:https://access.redhat.com/management/subscription_allocations[obtained a subscription manifest], upload it by browsing to the location where the file is saved (the subscription manifest is the complete .zip file, and not only its component parts).

Reviewer: upload it by browsing to, or by navigating to?

+
[NOTE]
====
If the *Browse* option in the subscription manifest option is disabled, clear the username and password fields to enable it.
====
+
The subscription metadata is then retrieved from the RHSM/Satellite API, or from the manifest provided. 

> If multiple subscription counts were applied in a single installation, the controller combines the counts but uses the earliest expiration date as the expiry (at which point you must refresh your subscription).

Reviewer: installation, {ControllerName} combines

.. If you are using your Red Hat customer credentials, enter your username and password on the license page. 
Use your Satellite username or password if your automation controller cluster nodes are registered to Satellite with Subscription Manager. 
After you enter your credentials, click *Get Subscriptions*.
+
{ControllerNameStart} retrieves your configured subscription service. 

> Then, it prompts you to choose the subscription that you want to run and entitles the controller with that metadata. 

Reviewer: and entitles -> and applies that metadata to {ControllerName}.

.. *User analytics*. Collects data from the controller UI.
.. *Insights Analytics*. Provides a high level analysis of your automation with {ControllerName}. 
It helps you to identify trends and anomalous use of the controller. 
For opt-in of Automation Analytics to be effective, your instance of {ControllerName} must be running on Red Hat Enterprise Linux. 
For more information, see the link:http://docs.ansible.com/automation-controller/4.4/html/administration/usability_data_collection.html#user-data-insights[Automation Analytics] section.
+
[NOTE]
====
You can change your analytics data collection preferences at any time, as described in the link:https://docs.ansible.com/automation-controller/4.4/html/administration/usability_data_collection.html#usability-data-collection[Usability Analytics and Data Collection] section.
====
+
. After you have specified your tracking and Insights preferences, click btn:[Next] to proceed to the End User Agreement.
. Review and check the *I agree to the End User License Agreement* checkbox and click btn:[Submit].

After your subscription is accepted, {ControllerName} displays the subscription details and opens the Dashboard. 

> To return to the Subscription settings screen from the Dashboard, from the navigation panel select menu:Settings[Subscription settings] from the btn:[Subscription] option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To return to the Subscription settings screen from the Dashboard, select menu:Settings[Subscription settings] from the btn:[Subscription] option in the navigation panel.
```

> To return to the Subscription settings screen from the Dashboard, click btn:[Settings] on the navigation menu and select btn:[Subscription settings] from the btn:[Subscription] option.

Reviewer: again, navigation menu or navigation bar?

image::controller-gs-licenseaccepted.png[Subscription Details]

.Troubleshooting

When your subscription expires (you can check this in the Subscription details of the Subscription settings window), you must renew it in {ControllerName} by one of the preceding two methods.

> If you encounter the “Error fetching licenses'” message, you need the proper permissions required for the Satellite user. 

Reviewer: you must have the proper permissions

> If you encounter the "Error fetching licenses" message, you must have the proper permissions required for the Satellite user. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you encounter the "Error fetching licenses" message, check that you have the proper permissions required for the Satellite user. 
```

The {ControllerName} administrator requires this to apply a subscription.

> The Satellite username or password is used to query the Satellite API for existing subscriptions. 

Reviewer: Either the Satellite.... one or both?
